---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basic technical Website"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - BrowserHistory WODs
  - MIS
---

I can’t speak for everyone but “Wow” is all I can say after completing the first three BrowserHistory WODs. Jumping into ITM352, I had no prior knowledge or experience in HTML, CSS, or JavaScript. I had to learn everything from scratch and was struggling to finish the WODs. For the first WOD, I attempted to do it by myself but gave up after 35 minutes because I did not know how to create a link within each section to an external web page. After watching the screencast, I went back to fix my mistakes and was able to complete it at Sd time. I decided to delete everything and start fresh and was able to finish it at Rx time. My fourth attempt was when I actually screen recorded my process and thankfully, I finished it at Rx time. 

Just when I thought this could not get any harder, the second and third WOD really humbled me. For the second WOD, I struggled with task 5 where we were asked to create definitions in our style.css file and references in the index.html file. I guess I have no one to blame but myself because I skimmed through the assigned readings and did not take detailed notes. Once I went back to read more carefully and did more research on W3School (my holy grail, my bff, my 4lyfer), I was able to resolve my issue. I also watched the screencast afterwards to double check on my steps. After three attempts, two of which were at Sd and Av time, I was able to record and finish the second WOD at Rx time. 

The third WOD was much shorter with only three tasks, but that did not stop me from attempting it multiple times before watching the screencast. The section that I was stuck on was having to remove the list items in the table of contents. Although I have modified the <ul tag my style.css file, nothing changed after I refreshed my live server. I have no idea what I did wrong and was stuck for a good 15 minutes. Then, it struck me. My reckless self did not add the <ul tag for the table of contents’ list while I was doing the first WOD (yeah… quite tragic if I may say so myself). It was smooth sailing from there. After two attempts at DNF time, my third attempt was under Rx time once I figured out my mistake. 

Some advice that I would give is that it does not hurt to watch the screencasts. In the third WOD, the professor showed us how to add paddings to add more space between the images and make everything look neat. In all the WODs, he also went more in depth about code syntax and why certain things are placed where they are. So definitely watch them even if you have already figured everything out.  As I have mentioned before, utilize W3School! It is a good site to refresh your memory or to just learn about codes and how they work. All in all, the three BrowserHistory WODs were definitely a challenge but they also made me want to learn more about CSS and JavaScript after I saw the things that one can do with these codes. 
