---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Prepearing for WODs"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-16
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Essay
  - E3
---

For the Invoice1 WOD, we were asked to create a sales receipt for a sale that contains at least five different products. Instead of “hardcoding” the computations, we must use expressions and variables to compute various values dynamically. In the end, we should be able to change the variable values and the sales receipt will automatically compute and display the correct values. 

As I attempted the WOD on my own, I was stuck on Step 7, adding HTML to display a table template. I ended up watching the screencast and followed the professor’s instructions to inspect the instruction page and copy the table template. Additionally, I was stuck on Step 8 where we were asked to: “put the row template into a document.write() then string templates to fill in the product data in the row cells.” I think the most confusing part for me was using document.write and adding them in between the <script> tags. I kept on receiving an error message as I inspected the live server. After looking back at all my codes, I realized that I forgot to declare the variable item1 in the previous step as well as misspelling ‘extended_price.’ Other than these minor, reckless errors that slowed me down, everything else worked out well for me. 

Similar to other WODs, I attempted to go through all the steps on my own. If I am stuck, I will refer back to the readings or search on W3Schools to work out my issues. When nothing is working, I will watch the solution screencast to figure out what I did not do correctly and fix my mistakes. After deleting the entire file and restarting the WOD with no mistake, I will start my screen recording and submit my video. 

For the next WOD, I will try my best to only do a few steps and inspect my site for errors before moving on to the next step. This will help me avoid making small errors that are hard to look back later. I will also try to read through each code carefully to prevent making any spelling mistakes or adding extra marks. I will also practice getting into the habit of adding a semicolon after my codes and organizing them so they are easier to look back and edit. 

