---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report "
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-13
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Essay
  - E4
---

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

Looking back from when I first started ITM352, my current programming skills have improved drastically. I went from someone who had zero experience in coding and was just taking the class to get a feel of the MIS major, to being able to create a simple webpage with my basic knowledge about Javascript, CSS, and server side fundamentals. While it was frustrating at first to find small errors and sometimes, having to delete my entire code and start over, I got better at checking for mistakes and troubleshooting. Although I still have to look back at the readings and search up on W3Schools, I am learning more interesting tricks and alternative methods along the way. 

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

One of my greatest weaknesses is getting too carried away and not checking for error after a few lines of codes. I know that this is a bad habit and it is what caused my shortcomings as I start on some of the WODs and Assignment 1. Adding on to this bad habit is me not writing down comments as I am working. I now realized that while this seemed like a hassle, writing as many comments as I could will greatly help not only the TAs when they grade my work, but also myself when I have to retrace my train of thoughts and point out my errors. 

I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

This is one of the skills that I am most proud of. In the beginning, I was very dependent on the screencasts and the readings that were handed to us for every WOD. After a couple failed attempts at the WODs, I would go straight to watching the screencasts for pointers and see what I did wrong. After the screencasts were removed, while it was difficult at first, I managed to overcome most of my issues by utilizing the resources that were given to me, the readings and W3Schools articles. The WODs have helped me build my basic knowledge of coding concepts and how I can apply them to Assignment 1 and possible the later assignments as well. 

The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

Despite how much I hate doing the labs, I cannot help but admit that they have helped me tremendously in learning new concepts. I would not say that I am able to complete some of them with confidence because I still have a difficult time with the “on-your-own” sections. Nonetheless, I was able to refer back to them and use what I have learned to piece together all of my codes for Assignment 1. It felt like I was putting together a big puzzle; when the website was functioning properly and looking like how I envisioned it, it was the best feeling ever. 

I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

How do I say this in the nicest way possible? Assignment 1 really humbled me and brought me back to reality. When I tell you I spent days, I really mean days and nights to work on this assignment. Along the way, it felt like I might be better off just trashing everything and start all over… which was exactly what I did. Now that I have finished and turned it in, I am proud of my work because I have challenged myself and was able to create a website from scratch. Every single thing that you see on that website, every picture, font, error message, and invoice calculation was done by me! Wow. I know this sounded a bit like I am bragging but I believe all the students should be proud of the progress they have made and their final products that they have submitted. 

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

Because I am more of a visual learner, it was hard to read pages of articles and learn the concepts for the next class period. I would appreciate it more if there were detailed videos to watch or if the professor spends more time explaining these concepts. Most of the time, we have to run against the clock and rush through the exercises but still ended up with a lot of tasks leftover for students to do it by themselves at home. 

What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):

What helped me the most in class is spending time on the WODs and watching the screencasts. With multiple attempts for each WOD, I was able to strengthen my skills and created some sort of a muscle memory when performing certain tasks and codes. This class is one of the hardest classes I have taken to date but it is also the most rewarding class because I am able to create something that I can call my own and understand the work that people put into creating a simple webpage for others to view. 
