---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-25
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Reflection
  - Assignment 2
---

1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
- Assignment 2 is a continuation of Assignment 1. For this assignment, we were asked to upgrade the website that we have previously designed (Assignment 1) to include a personalized experience for each user. By creating a registration form through which users can register their data and create a login form, we can save their name for future visits as well as greeting and thanking them by their name in the invoice. Attached is the link to my assignment 2: https://github.com/bctrxn/ITM352_S23_repo/tree/main/Tran_Bao_Assignment2

2. What did you learn from this assignment?
- In my opinion, I thought Assignment 2 was quite difficult due to the short time frame that we were given to complete it. One of the most notable skills that I have learned while working on this assignment was data storing. It was vey interesting to store the purchased quantities of the store’s products in an object on the server, then calling on them once they are at the invoice page. Another lesson that I have learned is the importance of planning out your website (displays, fonts, images) before you start to code. I am also getting into the habit of testing my site after a few lines of code so that I could save some time instead of stopping mid-code to look for minor mistakes. 

3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
- I did not work with a partner for this assignment. 

4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
- As mentioned in the previous reflections, W3Schools is my best friend when it comes to troubleshooting and learning about new ways to approach a problem. If I really cannot troubleshoot the errors by myself, then I would resort to asking friends who have taken this class in previous semesters or searching via ChatGPT. 

5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
- While Assignment 1 consisted of more codes, the concepts and time crunch made Assignment 2 very different from what I anticipated. The codes for Assignment 2 were more complex and required a lot more attention to detail as well as a complete understanding of the manuals and lab exercises. I did not schedule a meeting with the professor for this assignment but I might have to for the upcoming Assignment 3. 

6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
- Pre-planning (designing) site: 10%, writing code: 60%, troubleshooting: 15%, researching and reading manuals: 15%

7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
- What worked well with this project was that I was able to plan out for my site early on and get an early start because I finished Assignment 1 a few days before the due date. What did not work well was the registration editor requirement. I spent a lot of time figuring out my errors but decided to give up after the professor said it was for extra credit if you are working alone. 

8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
- If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would read the manuals and online resources more thoroughly before starting. To be honest, although I had an early start, my motivation was stagnant at the middle of the week. I ended up pushing the Assignment back to two days before it was due and was basically burnt out after staying up late to work on it. 
