---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Reflection
  - Assignment 3
---

1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
   - My system is an online store selling 6 different types of mopeds along with helmets and accessories. 
2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
   - There were no significant problem or additional features not implemented. 
3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
   - What I am most proud about my system is that I was able to implement all of the requirements as well as the individual requirement in my codes. Despite the many problems that I encountered, it did not take long for me to resolve them because I finally got into the habit of commenting my codes and checking for errors after a couple lines of codes. 
4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:
   - I am least happy with my home page. I feel like there are more features that can be added to it. However, I was running out of time so I decided to focus more on the other requirements and to resolve my issues. 
5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
   - While this Assignment built upon Assignment #2, developing Assignment #3 was a completely different experience. We were given more tasks/requirements to fulfill. 
6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
   - When I encounter a problem, I would ask around for help from my peers. To further understand how I could resolve the issue, I would read articles on W3Schools and other websites. 
7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
   - I think what worked well while completing this assignment was that I was able to manage my time better. I knew that I would fall behind during finals weeks and the study days so I started on this assignment the day after I submitted Assignment #2. 
8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
   - As I was working on this assignment, I believe the time crunch was the biggest factor that affected my performance. Although this is an important class, I could not reserve all my study hours to work on this assignment. During the last two weeks of school, I have to prepare and study for my final exams in my other classes. Additionally, I was having some issues with accessing the class server last night. Before I could log on to my site, it kept showing a “Stopped” message next to my name. 
9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?
   - To be completely honest, I learned a lot of valuable after completing not this assignment alone, but the ITM352 class as a whole. This class has humbled me and taught me that no matter how many articles you read or how many tutorial videos you watched, working on the assignments is a different story. As I am working on my site, there were many obstacles that popped up along the way. This class taught me how to be resourceful and troubleshoot problems by myself. Unlike other classes, this class requires a lot of time to learn and work on the assignments outside of class. There was no way I can push this assignment back and work on it in a few days… and boy am I glad I started early on because I finished it one day before it was due.
10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
    - Like what I mentioned before, if I could go back in time, I would allocate a bit more time to work on my Home page. I want it to have more features and be able to catch the customer’s attention the minute they access my site. 
11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
    - Drafting/planning out (30%), writing code (45%), testing and debugging (25%) 
12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
    - I did not work in a team for this assignment. 


